Computer Science Specialization - Job Roles Software Developer tasked with creating and developing websites, programs, and other applications that run on computers or other devices. Skills needed Knowledge of HTML/CSS, Javascript, and other programming languages is essential for this role. Its also important to have knowledge of graphic design and a collaborative mindset while working with other designers on projects. Web Developer are programmers that are concentrated on coding, designing, and building out the layout of a website. Skills needed A strong background in computer programming is highly recommended for these positions. Interpersonal skills to collaborate with others on projects and being detail oriented to be able to juggle multiple aspects are also highly valued UX Designer are in charge of creating significant and relevant experiences for users of a particular product or platform. Theyre part of the reason why you love your favorite apps and their interfaces. Skills needed Knowledge of programming and computer systems can greatly aid your success in this rolethis expertise makes it easier to translate your design vision to your team. Mobile App Developer are similar to Web Developers, except their area of expertise is creating, coding, and testing for mobile applications. Skills needed Besides the basics of strong analytical skills and coding knowledge, its good to know both programmatic languagesJava (for Androids) and Objective-C (for iPhones) IT Project Manager are in charge of planning, budgeting, and basically running an organizations IT goals and initiatives. Skills needed Strong leadership skills are vital in this role. As the IT Project Manager, you will be responsible for not only heading up a team, but guiding, hiring, and making decisions for the interest of all. Information Security Analyst are in charge of implementing systems of safety and protecting a companys computer networks. Skills needed Being meticulous and detail-oriented in your work is mandatory for success in this role, as a whole organizations security is on the line. Being able to predict outcomes and adjust security accordingly is also key. Systems Architect analyze a company holistically and figure out how to bring the best possible IT strategy for their departments goals. They define and design the architecture of said system to create the highest quality experience possible. Skills needed The ability to critically analyze the objectives of a business and identify the scale of resources it will require on all sides. Being able to troubleshoot, assess, and translate customer needs is also good to have. AI Engineer create, test, and develop computer systems with a goal of mimicking human intelligence in said systems. Skills needed Programming is at the heart of this role, alongside a strong understanding of software development, linear algebra, probability, and statistics. Computer Hardware Engineer are responsible for designing, researching, developing, and building computer systems and components like chips, memory devices, and circuit boards. Skills needed You need solid technical and analytical skills, and a strong spirit of collaboration when working with software developers on developing projects. Video Game Developer are the coding heroes behind the games you play in your free time. They code on various systems and conceptualize with other developers to create playable games. Skills needed Storytelling skills, along with the ability to conceptualize both plot and design. Its valuable to have a vision and ideas for executing it well References. 